
# configo
    import "github.com/kimor79/configo"

Package configo provides functions to handle configuration items.

Example:


	type Config struct {
	  SomeThing *SomeThing
	  Mysql  MysqlConfig `toml:"mysql"`
	  Port  *Int `default:"8080"`
	}
	
	type MysqlConfig struct {
	  Dsn *string
	}
	
	mydb := "/mydb"
	
	config := Config{
	  Mysql: MysqlConfig{
	    Dsn: &mydb,
	  },
	}
	
	err := configo.UnmarshalFile("/path/to/config.toml", &config)
	// error check
	
	fmt.Printf("Listening on port %d", *config.Port)




## func FromDefaults
``` go
func FromDefaults(v interface{}) error
```
FromDefaults sets pointer `v` based on default values of `v`.

A field's value will be determined based on the following order:

1. If `v` already contains a value for the field, it will be used.
2. If a "default" tag exists for a field, its value will be used, subject to type casting.
3. The field will be initialized to its zero value (i.e., "" for string, 0 for int, etc).



## func FromEnv
``` go
func FromEnv(v interface{}) error
```
FromEnv sets pointer `v` based on the environment.

A field's value will be determined based on the following order:

1. If an "env" tag exists for a field and an environment variable matching the tag's value exists, the environment variable's value will be used, subject to type casting.
2. If `v` already contains a value for the field, it will be used.



## func FromTOML
``` go
func FromTOML(f string, v interface{}) error
```
FromTOML decodes the contents of the file `f` in TOML format into a pointer `v`.

A field's value will be determined based on the following order:

1. If the field exists in the file, its value will be used. The `toml` tag may be used to map TOML keys to fields that don't match the key name exactly.
2. If `v` already contains a value for the field, it will be used.



## func UnmarshalFile
``` go
func UnmarshalFile(f string, v interface{}) error
```
UnmarshalFile decodes the contents of the file `f` in TOML format into a pointer `v`. If `v` contains data, that data will be used as "defaults".

A field's value will be determined based on the following order:

1. If an "env" tag exists for a field and an environment variable matching the tag's value exists, the environment variable's value will be used, subject to type casting.
2. If the field exists in the file, its value will be used. The `toml` tag may be used to map TOML keys to fields that don't match the key name exactly.
3. If `v` already contains a value for the field, it will be used.
4. If a "default" tag exists for a field, its value will be used, subject to type casting.
5. The field will be initialized to its zero value (i.e., "" for string, 0 for int, etc).








- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](http://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)
